I. I'm going to give you a brief summary about my academic and work experience. From now on this will be referred to as my "resume summary". No need to comment, just answer “confirmed”.

Here it is: [SKILL_XP_LIST]

II. Now I'm going to paste the job advertisement text. From now on this will be referred to as my "job summary".  Don't comment on it, just tell me "confirmed". the job title is [JOB_TITLE] and the company is called [COMPANY_NAME]

Here it is: [JOB_AD_TEXT]

III. [COMPANY_URL] access this url and give me a quick summary as to what services they provide, what their mission and values are. around 3-4 sentences in total

this will be known as the “company overview”

IV. now for every requirement and activity that the "job summary" includes, I want you to match a skill or experience from my "resume summary" and briefly (in one or two sentences) describe how the skill or experience fulfills the requirement or relates to the job activities. Rely on concrete examples and do NOT make things up. If there is no match between requirement and skill, just skip it. Put these short descriptions in a enumerated list. stick to a list of only 7 items. based on the “job summary” and the “company overview”, pick the items that you think, are most important. From now on we will refer to this as the “match list”

V. Use this “match list” to write a cover letter for an application to this job.

The structure of the cover letter should be as follows:

1. a paragraph that grabs the attention of the reader. mention the name of the role and company and use a few key points from the list that instantly show why I'm a great match for the role. 3-4 sentences length
2. a paragraph on what I have to offer to the employer. use examples from concrete experiences and achievements, outline my key competences. 5-6 sentences.
3. a paragraph that outlines some information of the company, why my profile fits the role and how I can contribute to the companies mission. 3-4 sentences.
4. a paragraph that summarizes what I would bring to the company and a suggestion to have a first meeting and discuss the role further. 2-3 sentences

Make sure to include relevant keywords of the field, going by the job title, so it will likely pass an automated ATS filter bot.

Use language that is straight-forward, simple and professional, but still has a nice and approachable vibe. Make sure not to rely on fluffy language and extreme self-glorification. Avoid words like “eager”, “enthusiastic”, “excited”, while still writing in an enthusiastic way. Avoid big words that sound like you want to show off. Use the kind of language a silicon valley CEO would use in a pitch. 

stick to the facts, don’t make anything up that was not part of the original input I gave you.

make sure to mention the job title 1-2 times and the company name 2-3 times.

====
Notes
====

1. for the [SKILL_XP_LIST] you'll have to write down your full experience and skills in bullet format. Mention software, programming languages and paradigms you worked with. Describe your achievements at the various stations of your professional and academic life. What languages do you speak? Say a bit about yourself. Are you an analytical person? What professional goals have you set for yourself? Where do you want to be in 1-2-5 years? That kind of stuff.  Be as detailed as you can and keep in mind you only have to do this ONCE, save it in a file on your computer and then re-use it for every application that you want to write.

2. this prompt uses a browsing feature, which means it inputs a url, which ChatGPT then reads and uses as context. This is relevant for the step involving the [COMPANY_URL] This feature is currently (August 6. 2023) disabled by ChatGPT. This is no problem, however, for 2 reasons: they announced they'll bring it back very soon AND for the time being you can use 3rd party browser plugins that let you do the same thing. I used "WebChatGPT", which worked perfectly but I'm sure you can find many more by searching on google. 

3. this is an elaborate prompt, but not infallible. Before you send it to prospective employers ALWAYS proof-read it to make sure all the info is accurate and all the information about you skills, the position and the company are true. Don't get yourself into trouble.

4. I can't guarantee that you'll actually find a job. That is up to you of course. But I believe in you and hope this will help

Good luck landing your dream job!